Pure consensus upgrade version of the merge (#2257)
ethereum/eth2.0-specs: specs/merge/beacon-chain.md

## Constants

### Transition

| Name | Value |
| - | - |
| `TRANSITION_TOTAL_DIFFICULTY` | **TBD** |

### Execution

| Name | Value |
| - | - |
| `MAX_BYTES_PER_TRANSACTION_PAYLOAD` | `uint64(2**20)` (= 1,048,576) |
| `MAX_APPLICATION_TRANSACTIONS` | `uint64(2**14)` (= 16,384) |
| `BYTES_PER_LOGS_BLOOM` | `uint64(2**8)` (= 256) |

## Containers

### Extended containers

*Note*: Extended SSZ containers inherit all fields from the parent in the original
order and append any additional fields to the end.

#### `BeaconBlockBody`

*Note*: `BeaconBlockBody` fields remain unchanged other than the addition of `application_payload`.

```python
class BeaconBlockBody(phase0.BeaconBlockBody):
    application_payload: ApplicationPayload  # [New in Merge] application payload
```

#### `BeaconState`

*Note*: `BeaconState` fields remain unchanged other than addition of `application_state_root` and `application_block_hash`.

```python
class BeaconState(phase0.BeaconState):
    # Application-layer
    application_state_root: Bytes32  # [New in Merge]
    application_block_hash: Bytes32  # [New in Merge]
```

### New containers

#### `Transaction`

> Application transaction fields structured as an SSZ object for inclusion in an `ApplicationPayload` contained within a `BeaconBlock`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Application transaction fields structured as an SSZ object for inclusion in an `ApplicationPayload` contained within a `BeaconBlockBody`.
```

```python
class Transaction(Container):
    nonce: uint64
    gas_price: uint256
    gas_limit: uint64
    recipient: Bytes20
    value: uint256
    data: ByteList[MAX_BYTES_PER_TRANSACTION_PAYLOAD]
    v: uint256
    r: uint256
    s: uint256
```

#### `ApplicationPayload`

> The application payload included in a `BeaconBlock`.

Reviewer: Nit. Application payload is included in block body

```suggestion
The application payload included in a `BeaconBlockBody`.
```

```python
class ApplicationPayload(Container):
    block_hash: Bytes32  # Hash of application block
    coinbase: Bytes20
    state_root: Bytes32

>     gas_limit: uint64

Reviewer: How is this `gas_limit` different than the `gas_limit` inside the `Transaction`?

Author: This is a gas limit of an application block

Reviewer 2: the block gas limit vs the gas limit for each individual transaction.

we should most certainly retain the validity rule at the application layer that the block gas limit is changed w/in the parameters of the protocol -- so the application node will need to verify this number but the beacon chain is otherwise indifferent to it

Reviewer: Got it. I was thinking it'd just be `MAX_APPLICATION_TRANSACTIONS * transaction.gas_limit`

But different transaction types could have different gas limit

      - [`get_application_state`](#get_application_state)
      - [`application_state_transition`](#application_state_transition)
      - [`process_application_payload`](#process_application_payload)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- /TOC -->

## Introduction

This is a patch implementing the executable beacon chain proposal. 
It enshrines application-layer execution and validity as a first class citizen at the core of the beacon chain.

## Constants

### Transition

| Name | Value |
| - | - |
| `TRANSITION_TOTAL_DIFFICULTY` | **TBD** |

### Execution

| Name | Value |
| - | - |
| `MAX_BYTES_PER_TRANSACTION_PAYLOAD` | `uint64(2**20)` (= 1,048,576) |
| `MAX_APPLICATION_TRANSACTIONS` | `uint64(2**14)` (= 16,384) |
| `BYTES_PER_LOGS_BLOOM` | `uint64(2**8)` (= 256) |

## Containers

### Extended containers

*Note*: Extended SSZ containers inherit all fields from the parent in the original
order and append any additional fields to the end.

#### `BeaconBlockBody`

*Note*: `BeaconBlockBody` fields remain unchanged other than the addition of `application_payload`.

```python
class BeaconBlockBody(phase0.BeaconBlockBody):

>     application_payload: ApplicationPayload  # [Added in Merge] application payload

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    application_payload: ApplicationPayload  # [New in Merge]
```

```

#### `BeaconState`

*Note*: `BeaconState` fields remain unchanged other than addition of `application_state_root` and `application_block_hash`.

```python
class BeaconState(phase0.BeaconState):
    # Application-layer

>     application_state_root: Bytes32 # [New in Merge]
>     application_block_hash: Bytes32 # [New in Merge]

Reviewer 3: Code style: two spaces after code before an in-line comment

```suggestion
    application_state_root: Bytes32  # [New in Merge]
    application_block_hash: Bytes32  # [New in Merge]
```

```

### New containers

#### `Transaction`

Application transaction fields structured as an SSZ object for inclusion in an `ApplicationPayload` contained within a `BeaconBlock`.

```python
class Transaction(Container):
    nonce: uint64
    gas_price: uint256
    gas_limit: uint64
    recipient: Bytes20
    value: uint256

>     input: List[Bytes1, MAX_BYTES_PER_TRANSACTION_PAYLOAD]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    input: List[byte, MAX_BYTES_PER_TRANSACTION_PAYLOAD]
```

i believe this is a lighter weight encoding according to the ssz spec (where it does define a `byte` as a `uint8`, rather than `Bytes1` which is a `Vector[byte, 1]`

>     input: List[Bytes1, MAX_BYTES_PER_TRANSACTION_PAYLOAD]

Reviewer 4: What do you think about renaming `input` to `data`?

    v: uint256
    r: uint256
    s: uint256
```

#### `ApplicationPayload`

The application payload included in a `BeaconBlock`.

```python
class ApplicationPayload(Container):
    block_hash: Bytes32  # Hash of application block
    coinbase: Bytes20
    state_root: Bytes32
    gas_limit: uint64
    gas_used: uint64
    receipt_root: Bytes32

>     logs_bloom: Vector[Bytes1, BYTES_PER_LOGS_BLOOM]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    logs_bloom: Vector[byte, BYTES_PER_LOGS_BLOOM]
```

Reviewer 5: `log_bloom: ByteVector[BYTES_PER_LOGS_BLOOM]` would also work (difference: more alike to python `bytes` instead of a python `list[int]`)

Author: Is there a `ByteList` as well? It could fit transaction data, e.g. `data: ByteList[MAX_BYTES_PER_TRANSACTION_PAYLOAD]`.

Reviewer 5: Yes, there's a `ByteList[N]` as well, which should be faster and more similar to `bytes`, just like `ByteVector[N]`

>     difficulty: uint64  # Temporary field, will be removed later on

Reviewer 2: why can't we remove this field now?

#### Application payload processing

##### `get_application_state`

*Note*: `ApplicationState` class is an abstract class representing ethereum application state.

Let `get_application_state(application_state_root: Bytes32) -> ApplicationState`  be the function that given the root hash returns a copy of ethereum application state. 
The body of the function is implementation dependent.

##### `application_state_transition`

Let `application_state_transition(application_state: ApplicationState, application_payload: ApplicationPayload) -> None` be the transition function of ethereum application state. 
The body of the function is implementation dependent.

*Note*: `application_state_transition` must throw `AssertionError` if either the transition itself or one of the post-transition verifications has failed.

##### `process_application_payload`

```python
def process_application_payload(state: BeaconState, body: BeaconBlockBody) -> None:
    """
    Note: This function is designed to be able to be run in parallel with the other `process_block` sub-functions
    """

    if is_transition_completed(state):
        application_state = get_application_state(state.application_state_root)

>         application_state_transition(application_state, body.application_payload)

Reviewer 6: would it make sense to pass in the randao or some other seed for `DIFFICULTY`/`BLOCKHASH` here?

obviously, easiest to just stick them on the `application_payload` so the eth1 engine doesn't even have to know about this new logic.

Author: Yep, I think it would make sense to prepare a consensus bundle that will be passed onto this function with randao mix and further extended by other bits. I'd add it later once we made the decision about difficulty and whether to use randao or not.

# Ethereum 2.0 The Merge

> **Warning:** This document is based on [Phase 0](../phase0/beacon-chain.md) and considered to be rebased to [Altair](../altair/beacon-chain.md) once the latter is shipped.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Warning:** This document is currently based on [Phase 0](../phase0/beacon-chain.md) but will be rebased to [Altair](../altair/beacon-chain.md) once the latter is shipped.
```

## Table of contents

<!-- TOC -->
<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Constants](#constants)
  - [Transition](#transition)
  - [Execution](#execution)
- [Containers](#containers)
  - [Extended containers](#extended-containers)
    - [`BeaconBlockBody`](#beaconblockbody)
    - [`BeaconState`](#beaconstate)
  - [New containers](#new-containers)
    - [`Transaction`](#transaction)
    - [`ApplicationPayload`](#applicationpayload)
- [Helper functions](#helper-functions)
  - [Misc](#misc)
    - [`is_transition_completed`](#is_transition_completed)
    - [`is_transition_block`](#is_transition_block)
  - [Block processing](#block-processing)
    - [Application payload processing](#application-payload-processing)
      - [`get_application_state`](#get_application_state)
      - [`application_state_transition`](#application_state_transition)
      - [`process_application_payload`](#process_application_payload)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- /TOC -->

## Introduction

> This is a patch implementing executable beacon chain proposal. 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
This is a patch implementing the executable beacon chain proposal. 
```

> It enshrines application execution and validity as a first class citizen at the core of the beacon chain.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It enshrines application-layer execution and validity as a first class citizen at the core of the beacon chain.
```

## Constants

### Transition

> | Name | Value |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

| Name | Value |
```

| - | - |

> | `TRANSITION_TOTAL_DIFFICULTY` | _TBD_ |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `TRANSITION_TOTAL_DIFFICULTY` | **TBD** |
```

### Execution

| Name | Value |
| - | - |

> | `MAX_BYTES_PER_TRANSACTION_PAYLOAD` | `2**20` |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `MAX_BYTES_PER_TRANSACTION_PAYLOAD` | `uint64(2**20)` (= 1,048,576) |
```

> | `MAX_APPLICATION_TRANSACTIONS` | `2**14` |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `MAX_APPLICATION_TRANSACTIONS` | `uint64(2**14)` (= 16,384) |
```

> | `BYTES_PER_LOGS_BLOOM` | `2**8` |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `BYTES_PER_LOGS_BLOOM` | `uint64(2**8)` (= 256) |
```

## Containers

### Extended containers

*Note*: Extended SSZ containers inherit all fields from the parent in the original
order and append any additional fields to the end.

#### `BeaconBlockBody`

*Note*: `BeaconBlockBody` fields remain unchanged other than the addition of `application_payload`.

```python
class BeaconBlockBody(phase0.BeaconBlockBody):
    application_payload: ApplicationPayload  # [Added in Merge] application payload
```

#### `BeaconState`

*Note*: `BeaconState` fields remain unchanged other than addition of `application_state_root` and `application_block_hash`. 

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

```python
class BeaconState(phase0.BeaconState):
    # [Added in Merge] hash of the root of application state

>     application_state_root: Bytes32

Reviewer 8: What's the use of this? The only place where it's accessed is `process_application_payload`, which applies the transition function, but it's unclear why the beacon client needs to do it. Vitalik's spec doesn't mention it either.

>     # [Added in Merge] hash of the root of application state
>     application_state_root: Bytes32

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    # Application-layer
    application_state_root: Bytes32  # [New in Merge]
```

>     # [Added in Merge] hash of recent application block
>     application_block_hash: Bytes32

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    application_block_hash: Bytes32  # [New in Merge]
```

```

### New containers

#### `Transaction`

Application transaction fields structured as an SSZ object for inclusion in an `ApplicationPayload` contained within a `BeaconBlock`.

```python
class Transaction(Container):
    nonce: uint64
    gas_price: uint256

>     gas_limit: uint64

Reviewer 7: Post-London, these should be updated to be 1559-compatible.

    recipient: Bytes20
    value: uint256
    input: List[Bytes1, MAX_BYTES_PER_TRANSACTION_PAYLOAD]
    v: uint256
    r: uint256
    s: uint256
```

#### `ApplicationPayload`

The application payload included in a `BeaconBlock`.

```python

> class ApplicationPayload(Container):

Reviewer 7: Post-London, we'll want to add the `BASE FEE` here.

    block_hash: Bytes32  # Hash of application block
    coinbase: Bytes20
    state_root: Bytes32
    gas_limit: uint64
    gas_used: uint64
    receipt_root: Bytes32
    logs_bloom: Vector[Bytes1, BYTES_PER_LOGS_BLOOM]
    difficulty: uint64  # Temporary field, will be removed later on

>     transactions: List[Transaction, MAX_APPLICATION_TRANSACTIONS]

Reviewer 8: The only two fields in this class referenced by the spec are `block_hash` and `state_root`. Perhaps it would make things simpler to define `ApplicationPayload` as an abstract class?

Author: Application layer will need to be able to assemble an application block from an instance of `ApplicationPayload` and `parent_hash`. Thus, all these fields are important to be held by the beacon block body. Other application block fields (ethash, extra data) will be required to have zero values which will be verified by matching the `application_payload.block_hash` against the hash of assembled block on the application layer.

>     transactions: List[Transaction, MAX_APPLICATION_TRANSACTIONS]

Reviewer 5: Maybe define this as `transactions: List[Union[Transaction], MAX_APPLICATION_TRANSACTIONS]` to add a 4 byte selector to enable different transaction types in the future?

Optimization note: the Union type in SSZ is unused in Eth2 so far. We can parametrize the selector length, to shorten it to a 1 byte selector.

Author: Are you referring to this EIP https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2718? If yes then I would wait until the EIP is approved and shipped on the Mainnet. The intention is to replicate the application layer structures from those that will be on the Mainnet at the point of merge.

Reviewer 5: Also see #2270, to support `Union` with a 1-byte selector

```

## Helper functions

### Misc

#### `is_transition_completed`

```python
def is_transition_completed(state: BeaconState) -> boolean:

>     state.application_block_hash != Bytes32()

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    return state.application_block_hash != Bytes32()
```

```

#### `is_transition_block`

```python
def is_transition_block(state: BeaconState, block_body: BeaconBlockBody) -> boolean:

>     return state.application_block_hash == Bytes32() and block_body.application_payload.block_hash != Bytes32()

Reviewer 3: Might consider defining a `Hash` type to be more specific than `Bytes32` and to further disambiguate from `Root`

```

### Block processing

```python
def process_block(state: BeaconState, block: BeaconBlock) -> None:
    process_block_header(state, block)
    process_randao(state, block.body)

>     process_eth1_data(state, block.body)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    process_application_data(state, block.body)
```

Author: I agree that `Eth1Data` name will look odd after the merge but we might want to keep it as it this time. The follow up cleanups are going to reduce the follow distance of `Eth1Data` and it would be a good time to make the renaming too.

Reviewer 3: It's more of `DepositContractData` if we are going to rename it.
It is more specific and application layer data

    process_operations(state, block.body)
    process_application_payload(state, block.body)  # [New in Merge]
```

#### Application payload processing

> ##### `get_application_state`
> 
> *Note*: `ApplicationState` class is an abstract class representing ethereum application state.
> 
> Let `get_application_state(application_state_root: Bytes32) -> ApplicationState`  be the function that given the root hash returns a copy of ethereum application state. 
> The body of the function is implementation dependent.
> 
> ##### `application_state_transition`
> 
> Let `application_state_transition(application_state: ApplicationState, application_payload: ApplicationPayload) -> None` be the transition function of ethereum application state. 
> The body of the function is implementation dependent.
> 
> *Note*: `application_state_transition` must throw `AssertionError` if either the transition itself or one of the post-transition verifications has failed.

Reviewer 9: Do we need `get_application_state()` at all? (also see other comment below)

```suggestion
##### `application_state_transition`

Let `application_state_transition(application_state_root: Bytes32, application_payload: ApplicationPayload) -> Bytes32` be the transition function of ethereum application state. This function takes the pre-state associated with `application_state_root`, applies the `application_payload`, and returns the post-state root.
The body of the function is implementation dependent.

*Note*: `application_state_transition` must throw `AssertionError` if either the transition itself or one of the post-transition verifications has failed.
```

##### `process_application_payload`

```python
def process_application_payload(state: BeaconState, body: BeaconBlockBody) -> None:
    """

>     Note: This function is designed to be able to be run in parallel with 
>     the other `process_block` sub-functions

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Note: This function is designed to be able to be run in parallel with the other `process_block` sub-functions.
```

    """

    if is_transition_completed(state):

>         application_state = get_application_state(state.application_state_root)
>         application_state_transition(application_state, body.application_payload)
> 
>         state.application_state_root = body.application_payload.state_root

Reviewer 9: Is there a need for the Eth2 node to access `application_state`? 
A cleaner approach would be to outsource all the work to `application_state_transition()`, so that it operates using the `application_state_root`. (see suggestion for the `application_state_transition` function)
Also, need to check that whatever is returned by `application_state_transition()` actually matches with `body.application_payload.state_root`.

```suggestion
        state.application_state_root = application_state_transition(state.application_state_root, body.application_payload)
        assert state.application_state_root == body.application_payload.state_root
```

Author: I definitely see the value in simplifying this part. But then it would not read like the beacon state and the application state are tightly coupled.

For the root check we can do the following:
```python
application_state = get_application_state(state.application_state_root)
application_state_transition(application_state, body.application_payload)

assert body.application_payload.state_root == get_application_state_root(application_state)

state.application_state_root = body.application_payload.state_root
state.application_block_hash = body.application_payload.block_hash
```

But that would require yet another abstract function. So, it might really be better to have the following (according to your suggestion):
```python
application_state_root = application_state_transition(state.application_state_root, body.application_payload)

assert application_state_root == body.application_payload.state_root

state.application_state_root = body.application_payload.state_root
state.application_block_hash = body.application_payload.block_hash
```

The latter form also fits stateless verification.

Reviewer 4: nitpicking: `application_state_root = application_state_transition(...)` requires `application_state_transition` to return `Bytes32`, but it doesn't align with the naming pattern as beacon state transition function `state_transition(...) -> None`. So having a `get_application_state_root(application_state)` makes sense to me.

Author: Making this call conformant with `state_transition(...)` was the original intention put behind this extra function call and using application state object rather than the state root.

Author: We may also define `ApplicationState` in a following way
```python
class ApplicationState(Container):
    root: Bytes32
```

And then add an explicit check of the state root after application state transition
```python
application_state = get_application_state(state.application_state_root)
application_state_transition(application_state, body.application_payload)

assert application_state.root == body.application_payload.state_root

state.application_state_root = body.application_payload.state_root
state.application_block_hash = body.application_payload.block_hash
```

        state.application_block_hash = body.application_payload.block_hash

    elif is_transition_block(state, body):

>         assert body.application_payload == ApplicationPayload(block_hash = body.application_payload.block_hash)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        assert body.application_payload == ApplicationPayload(block_hash=body.application_payload.block_hash)
```

>         assert body.application_payload == ApplicationPayload(block_hash = body.application_payload.block_hash)

Reviewer 3: Why must this block be empty of payload? Can you not build on a previous pow parent *and* have a normal TX payload at the same block?

Author: This is the way of bringing the hash of the last PoW block on chain. There is no `parent_hash` field in `ApplicationPayload` structure anymore, otherwise, it would make a lot of sense to do the thing in the way you've described.

Reviewer 3: right! But as we discussed offline, probably not worth adding 32-bytes to all payloads just for this transition case. Have a single slot delay does not really degrade quality of service especially considering pow Poisson process regularly has block times that are quite longer than 20 seconds

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- /TOC -->

## Introduction

This is a patch implementing executable beacon chain proposal. 
It enshrines application execution and validity as a first class citizen at the core of the beacon chain.

## Constants

### Transition
| Name | Value |
| - | - |
| `TRANSITION_TOTAL_DIFFICULTY` | _TBD_ |

### Execution

| Name | Value |
| - | - |
| `MAX_BYTES_PER_TRANSACTION_PAYLOAD` | `2**20` |
| `MAX_APPLICATION_TRANSACTIONS` | `2**14` |
| `BYTES_PER_LOGS_BLOOM` | `2**8` |

## Containers

### Extended containers

*Note*: Extended SSZ containers inherit all fields from the parent in the original
order and append any additional fields to the end.

#### `BeaconBlockBody`

*Note*: `BeaconBlockBody` fields remain unchanged other than the addition of `application_payload`.

```python
class BeaconBlockBody(phase0.BeaconBlockBody):
    application_payload: ApplicationPayload  # [Added in Merge] application payload
```

#### `BeaconState`

*Note*: `BeaconState` fields remain unchanged other than addition of `application_state_root` and `application_block_hash`. 

```python

> class BeaconState(Container):

Reviewer 8: Why not inherit here as well?

Author: Though, it might not be that convenient if we decide to go with this proposal and rebase it to Altair later on.

Application transaction fields structured as an SSZ object for inclusion in an `ApplicationPayload` contained within a `BeaconBlock`.

```python
class Transaction(Container):
    nonce: uint64
    gas_price: uint256
    gas_limit: uint64
    recipient: Bytes20
    value: uint256
    input: List[Bytes1, MAX_BYTES_PER_TRANSACTION_PAYLOAD]
    v: uint256
    r: uint256
    s: uint256
```

#### `ApplicationPayload`

The application payload included in a `BeaconBlock`.

```python
class ApplicationPayload(Container):
    block_hash: Bytes32  # Hash of application block
    coinbase: Bytes20
    state_root: Bytes32
    gas_limit: uint64
    gas_used: uint64
    receipt_root: Bytes32
    logs_bloom: Vector[Bytes1, BYTES_PER_LOGS_BLOOM]
    difficulty: uint64  # Temporary field, will be removed later on
    transactions: List[Transaction, MAX_APPLICATION_TRANSACTIONS]
```

## Helper functions

### Misc

#### `is_transition_completed`

```python
def is_transition_completed(state: BeaconState) -> Boolean:
    state.application_block_hash != Bytes32()
```

#### `is_transition_block`

```python
def is_transition_block(state: BeaconState, block_body: BeaconBlockBody) -> boolean:

>     return state.application_block_hash == Bytes32() and block.body.application_payload.block_hash != Bytes32()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    return state.application_block_hash == Bytes32() and block_body.application_payload.block_hash != Bytes32()
```

Let `get_application_state(application_state_root: Bytes32) -> ApplicationState`  be the function that given the root hash returns a copy of ethereum application state. 
The body of the function is implementation dependent.

##### `application_state_transition`

Let `application_state_transition(application_state: ApplicationState, application_payload: ApplicationPayload) -> None` be the transition function of ethereum application state. 
The body of the function is implementation dependent.

*Note*: `application_state_transition` must throw `AssertionError` if either the transition itself or one of the post-transition verifications has failed.

##### `process_application_payload`

```python
def process_application_payload(state: BeaconState, body: BeaconBlockBody) -> None:
    """
    Note: This function is designed to be able to be run in parallel with 
    the other `process_block` sub-functions
    """

    if is_transition_completed(state):
        application_state = get_application_state(state.application_state_root)
        application_state_transition(application_state, body.application_payload)

> 

Reviewer: In the original [doc](https://notes.ethereum.org/m9IX3OkkTveXCCOSzGkUiw), there's a check for:
`RLPDecode(block.application_block).parent_hash == state.previous_application_block_hash`

Since we no longer track previous_hash in beacon state and parent_hash in application payload. Are we outsourcing this check to the application engine?

Author: There is `state.application_block_hash` which probably make sense to prefix with `previous_` or `latest_` for conformance. This hash is passed to `eth2_insertBlock` alongside with the `ApplicationPayload` and the application layer tries to execute the application payload on top of a block with the hash.

        state.application_state_root = body.application_payload.state_root
        state.application_block_hash = body.application_payload.block_hash

    elif is_transition_block(state, body):
        assert body.application_payload == ApplicationPayload(block_hash = body.application_payload.block_hash)

>         state.application_block_hash = body.application_payload.block_hash

Reviewer: Do we need to assign `state.application_state_root` here as well?

Author: We don't need to because it must be a vector of zeros in this particular place but we can simplify the code a bit 👍
